Manager onboarding (#1782)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/engineering/onboarding/engineering-manager-onboarding.md

# Engineering manager onboarding

We expect our engineering managers to drive outcomes, so here are the outcomes we expect of you as you are onboarding at Sourcegraph. You have ownership and autonomy on how to achieve these outcomes. If you aren't confident that you are on the right path, just ask for help from your team and/or manager!

## Week 1

> - You have completed [general setup](index.md#getting-set-up).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You have completed the [engineering setup](index.md#getting-set-up).
```

This otherwise might be mixed up with `../../people-ops/onboarding/index.md#general-onboarding-checklist`

- You have scheduled recurring 1-1s with your team and ensured that you are invited to (and made the calendar owner of) all of your team's recurring meetings.
- You have made 1 commit or PR to our codebase (for example: adding yourself to our handbook, onboarding or product docs improvement).

## Month 1

> - You are able to describe the team's high level goals, answer questions about them, and defend them if they are challenged.

Author: ```suggestion
- You are able to describe the team's high level goals, answer questions about them, and explain them if they are challenged.
```

> - You are able to describe the individual work that each person on your team is doing, answer questions about that work, and defend why that work is important for the team's stated goals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You are able to describe the individual work that each person on your team is doing, answer questions about that work, and explain why that work is important for the team's stated goals.
```

- You are able to describe the career aspirations of each teammate, where they are struggling, and where they are thriving.

> - Your manager, your peer managers, and your teammates report that they are happy and relieved to have you on the team because you have already had a positive impact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your manager, your peer managers, and your teammates report that they are happy and relieved to have you on the team because you have already had a positive impact.
- You understand who are your stakeholders and have meet with them to understand their priorities.
```

## Month 2

- You are the credible voice and point of contact for the team. You are directly responsible for the team's success.

> - You are able to describe the vision for team's that everyone is bought in to and the handbook communicates a forecast for what the team will accomplish in the next 3 months.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You are able to describe the vision for the team that everyone is bought in to and the handbook communicates a forecast for what the team will accomplish in the next 3 months.
```

- You have made 1 commit or PR to our codebase (for example: adding yourself to our handbook, onboarding or product docs improvement).

## Month 1

- You are able to describe the team's high level goals, answer questions about them, and defend them if they are challenged.
- You are able to describe the individual work that each person on your team is doing, answer questions about that work, and explain why that work is important for the team's stated goals.
- You are able to describe the career aspirations of each teammate, where they are struggling, and where they are thriving.
- Your manager, your peer managers, and your teammates report that they are happy and relieved to have you on the team because you have already had a positive impact.
- You understand who are your stakeholders and have meet with them to understand their priorities.

## Month 2

- You are the credible voice and point of contact for the team. You are directly responsible for the team's success.
- You are able to describe the vision for the team that everyone is bought in to and the handbook communicates a forecast for what the team will accomplish in the next 3 months.

> - You conduct the hiring manager screen calls for candidates who would be joining your team.
>   - You can pitch Sourcegraph as a whole, the part of product your team works on, and the team itself.
>   - You understand what our hiring needs are for the team (what skills, values we are looking for).
>   - You have confidence in and can defend our hiring process (if not, you have proposed changes to improve it).

Author: ```suggestion
- You are accountable for your teams hiring process.
  - You understand what the team's hiring needs are (for example: skills, values).
  - You have confidence that our hiring process is calibrated to measure what we are looking for in an efficient and unbiased way.
  - You conduct the hiring manager screen calls for candidates who would be joining your team.
    - You can pitch Sourcegraph as a whole, the part of product your team works on, and the team itself.
```

# Engineering manager onboarding

We expect our engineering managers to drive outcomes, so here are the outcomes we expect of you as you are onboarding at Sourcegraph. You have ownership and autonomy on how to achieve these outcomes. If you aren't confident that you are on the right path, just ask for help from your team and/or manager!

## Week 1

- You have completed the [engineering setup](index.md#getting-set-up).
- You have scheduled recurring 1-1s with your team and ensured that you are invited to (and made the calendar owner of) all of your team's recurring meetings.
- You have made 1 commit or PR to our codebase (for example: adding yourself to our handbook, onboarding or product docs improvement).

## Month 1

> - You are able to describe the team's high level goals, answer questions about them, and defend them if they are challenged.

Author: ```suggestion
- You have confidence in the team's high level goals, and can explain them if they are challenged.
```

- You are able to describe the individual work that each person on your team is doing, answer questions about that work, and explain why that work is important for the team's stated goals.
- You are able to describe the career aspirations of each teammate, where they are struggling, and where they are thriving.
- Your manager, your peer managers, and your teammates report that they are happy and relieved to have you on the team because you have already had a positive impact.

> - You understand who are your stakeholders and have met with them to understand their priorities.

Author: ```suggestion
- You understand who are your stakeholders and have met with them to understand their priorities.
- You have read either [Turn the Ship Around or Orbiting the Giant Hairball](https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/engineering/leadership#book-recommendations) and shared your thoughts with your peer managers during a team sync.
```

> - You understand who are your stakeholders and have meet with them to understand their priorities.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- You understand who are your stakeholders and have met with them to understand their priorities.
```

## Month 2

- You are the credible voice and point of contact for the team. You are directly responsible for the team's success.

> - You are able to describe the vision for the team that everyone is bought in to and the handbook communicates a forecast for what the team will accomplish in the next 3 months.

Author: ```suggestion
- You have a written forecast (e.g., in the handbook) of the work the team is going to do over the next 3 months to make progress toward their goals.
```

- You are accountable for your teams hiring process.
  - You understand what the team's hiring needs are (for example: skills, values).

>   - You have confidence that our hiring process is calibrated to measure what we are looking for in an efficient and unbiased way.

Author: ```suggestion
  - You have confidence that our hiring process is calibrated to measure what we are looking for in an efficient and unbiased way (if not, you have proposed improvements).
```

  - You conduct the hiring manager screen calls for candidates who would be joining your team.

>     - You can pitch Sourcegraph as a whole, the part of product your team works on, and the team itself.

Author: ```suggestion
    - You can pitch Sourcegraph as a whole, the part of product your team works on, and the team itself.
- You have read both [Turn the Ship Around and Orbiting the Giant Hairball](https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/engineering/leadership#book-recommendations) and shared your thoughts with your peer managers during a team sync.
```
